# INTERDISCIPLINARY CENTRE FOR DIGITAL FUTURES (ICDF)

Welcome to the ICDF where our ethos is rooted in scholarly research with societal impact. The University of the Free State (UFS) is a research-led institution focused on impactful and engaged scholarship. Through the ICDF, the UFS seeks to create opportunities for research in the fast-evolving and multifaceted realm of the digital. Our focus is to develop and to strengthen research endevours with the potential to enhance interdisciplinary competencies within the socio-digital domain. This vision will lead to projects that are creative and conducive to dialogues of co-creation and co-development among diverse partners to unlock a wide array of contributions that should ultimately address our immediate societal challenges. We endeavour to create lasting relationships with non-academic partners as well as to forge dynamic and mutually beneficial networks between Global South and Global North colleagues. 

Our raison d’être is firmly vested in the increasing need to grapple with the ubiquitous realm of the digital. Given the digital’s often taken-for-granted nature as well as its rapid emergence and evolution, it is accompanied by manifold opportunities but also complex collateral damage and unintended consequences. It is therefore imperative for our team of interdisciplinary scholars to respond to this growing sphere of prospect and peril. Through our locally inspired projects with global reach and impact, it is incumbent on us as at the ICDF to address issues such as the growing digital divide – a divide that is economic, epistemic, and social in nature - through digital praxis that should influence both discourse development as well as innovation. The interdisciplinarity of our projects will make us cognisant of technologically deterministic projects that do not consider important contextual and ethically problematic features.
